It's International Men's Day, but this isn't a holiday which I think deserves a "Happy" preceding it; we still live in a world in which the continuing entitlement of women to the title of victimhood brings silence to the mouths of men, truly victimized. We're at a 20-year high, in suicide rates; reading the reports released by the CDC and BCMJ, one might think this is an epidemic to which no one is safe -- but men aged 13-45 and over 65 are between 3 and 7.5 times more likely to commit suicide than women, will more likely than not never request assistance due to the stigma put upon them for expressing their genuine mental health concern.

Reading deeper into the statistics, you will find that charts and graphs are normalised and regressed to calculate for independent variables of gender, but in doing so and presenting 100% of women's suicides as an equal proportion to be divided as 100% of men's suicides, you remove the reality for our species: nearly 5 men kill themselves, for every woman, and when they try to find help and not kill themselves, their problems are scaled down and reduced to be compared to that of the hypothetical women's problems, at which point psychologists, therapists, even suicide hotlines will often impress upon him how horrid and selfish he is. There have even been cases of suicide hotlines recommending specific men kill themselves.

I've witnessed some of these suicides first-hand. From places of madness, from places of depression so crushing that no affect of emotion is left to be found, from places of pressure to be anything but what that man was, they would do whatever they possibly could -- they would ask for help, and find themselves the villain when their emotions were not perfectly suited to the social worker's interests. These men were my friends. I loved them as my brothers, and so often they stood to protect me from the darker dangers of the streets.

And on those streets, it is always women-first. Should a woman attack a man in DESC's main shelter, the man is the one who will be removed from the shelter for the night. After all, he must've deserved it, right? The social workers and psychologists are certainly ill-equipped to interact with male clients, refusing all but the most submissive, fake-smile-wearing men any assistance whatsoever regardless of their condition or state. Add to this the 80% female staffing of homeless services, and for the most part, men who find themselves in the dregs of society cannot help but think the services aren't for them; nothing is for them.

It might not be much, but this stream is for them. This stream is for LaRon and Stephen and George, for 2Kut and Billy A, for Aaron and Zach, and for all the men to whom I owe my continued existence and survival. I'm sorry we, as a species, have taken you for granted, and more.
